React is JS library not a Framework.
React Does focus only on building UI not any other thing like routing or http request.
It has rich ecosystem and plays very well with other libraries to build a full fledged web application(like handling routing and httpRequest).
React has a component based architecture whicj lets us breaksdown our appl into smaller compoennts and then compose intoa complex UI.
React component develioped using react can be used in angular or vue by passing right data.

React is declarative means Tell React what you want and react will build the actual UI with react DOM libraries.This is declarative paradigm.
Imperarive paradigm --> This implements algorithm in explicit steps.
React Native is for developing Mobile apps.

**Prerequisites fro React:
 HTML, CSS, Javascript, ES6.
 javascript --> this keyword, filter, map and reduce
 ES6 --> let & const, arrow fn, template literals, object literals, default parameteres, rest and spread operators and destructuring assigment. 
 ReactContent : Fundamentals, HTTP, Routing, Redux (used foir state management), Utilities

 For React, We need node js to be installed in our system. npm gets installed with Node. and npx comes with npm 5.2 or higher. 
 create-react-app is CLI tool to start with React(create React projects etc.). 
 To Create react Project: 1. npx create-react-app <projectname>(project name cannot have Big letter). after creating project. cd projectname  and then npm start to start the react server on 3000 default port.
 2. "npm install -g create-react-app" to install create-react-app globally and then create project using create-react-app <projectname>. 
 In the 2nd way we will ahve to update the create-react-app CLI on time to time.

 index.html file is the only html file. that we are going to have in our aplication. it will have a <div> element with id 'root'. ReactDOM  will control this DOM element with the help of React componet <App>. when server starts then index.html gets loadd into browser the index.js load the <App> component into this html body with element <div id="root"></div>. and the html inside <App> component loaded into index.html. 

 Fucntional Compo:- Absence of this keyword. Since state is not availble so, it gives a opportunity to think the solution about how to maintain the data. Mainly responsible for UI. try to use functional component as much as possible. Stateless/dumb/presentational(But with React 16.7.0.alpha release its no more a stateless. (Hooks has been introduced which allows to maintain state and have life cycle hooks)
 Class Component :-Maintain their own private data-State. Provide life cycle hooks. Statefull/Smart/Container

 npm i es7 : to install es 7

If-else does not work inside JSX.
ternary operator can be used inside JSX

In html, form element are responsible for hadling the element values, But in React, we want to control the value s of form element by React. Those element, whose values are controlled by React called Controlled component.